.TH OGGZ-RIP 1 "May 3, 2013"
.SH NAME
oggz-rip \- Extract one or more logical bitstreams from an Ogg file.
 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoggz-rip\fR [\-o \fIfilename\fR | \-\-output \fIfilename\fR] \fIfilename\fR

\fBoggz-rip\fR [\-h | \-\-help] [\-v | \-\-version]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBoggz-rip\fR extracts one or more tracks from an Ogg file. 
In Ogg terminology, \fBoggz-rip\fR extracts one or more logical bitstreams. 
 
For example, to extract just the Vorbis audio track from any Ogg file: 
 
\fBoggz-rip \-c vorbis input.ogx > output.ogg\fR      

This will remove any other tracks: Skeleton, Theora, image, etc.
The output will be a valid Ogg Vorbis I file, suitable for use on 
hardware players that do not support multiplexed (ie. multi-track) 
Ogg files.

If the input file contains multiple bitstreams of the desired type,
then they can be selected by serialno with the \fB-s\fR option.
Use \fBoggz-info\fR to view the serialno of each track in a file. 
 
.SH OPTIONS
\fBoggz-rip\fR accepts the following options: 
 
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.BI "\-o, \-\-output " filename
Write output to the specified \fIfilename\fR instead of printing it to
standard output. 

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display usage information and exit. 

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version information and exit. 

.SS Filter options
These options can be used multiple times. Pages matching ANY of 
the filter options will be included into the output. 
 
.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-serialno " serialno
Output streams with given serialno. 

.TP
.BI "\-i, \-\-stream-index " index
Filter by stream index. These are assigned to streams in the order of their
BOS pages, starting at 0.

.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-content-type " content-type
Filter by content-type.  Run \fBoggz-known-codecs\fP(1) for a full list
of codecs known by the installed version of oggz.

.SH EXAMPLES
Extract all bitstreams from file.ogg:

.RS
\f(CWoggz rip \-o output.ogg file.ogg\fP
.RE

Extract only the Theora bitstream from file.ogv:

.RS
\f(CWoggz rip \-c theora \-o output.ogv file.ogv\fP
.RE
 
.SH AUTHOR
David Kuehling        January  1, 2005;      
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 CSIRO Australia 
 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oggz-merge (1),
.BR oggz-chop (1),
.BR oggz-dump (1),
.BR oggz-diff (1),
.BR hogg (1)
